if you do it right it should sound like
tick-tick-tick tick-tick-tick
if you do it wrong it sounds like Tic
Tac take that and take that the jump
rope is such a simple object it can be
made out of rope a clothesline twine it
has like a twirl on it I'm not sure how
to describe that what's important is
that it has a certain weight and they
have that kind of whip sound it's not
clear what the origin of the jump rope
is there are some evidence that it began
in ancient Egypt
Phoenicia and then it most likely
traveled to North America with Dutch
settlers the Rope became a big thing
when women's clothes became more fitted
and the Pantaloon came into being and so
girls were able to jump rope because
their skirts wouldn't catch the ropes
governesses used it to train their wards
to jump rope even formerly enslaved
African children in the antebellum South
jumped rope - in the 1950s in Harlem
Bronx Brooklyn Queens you could see on
the sidewalk
lots of girls playing with ropes
sometimes they would take two ropes and
turn them as a single rope together but
you could separate them and turn them in
like an eggbeater on each other the
skipping rope was like a steady timeline
tick tick tick tick upon which you can
add Rhymes and rhythms and chants those
ropes created a space where we were able
to contribute to something that was far
greater than the neighborhood double
dutch jump rope remains a powerful
symbol of culture and identity for black
women back from the 1950s to the 1970s
girls weren't supposed to play sports
the boys played baseball basketball and
football
and girls weren't allowed lots changed
but in that era girls would rule the
playground they make sure that boys
weren't a part of that it's their space
it's a girl-power space it's where they
get to shine but I also think it's for
boys because boys overheard those which
is why I think so many hip-hop artists
sampled from things that they heard and
black girls game signs why country
grammar by Nelly became a Grammy
award-winning single was because people
already knew we go on down down baby
your street in our Range Rover that's
the beginning of down down baby down
down the rollercoaster sweet sweet baby
I'll never let you go all the people who
grew up in any black urban community
wouldn't know that music and so it was a
ready-made hit the double dutch wrote
playing helped maintain these songs and
maintain the chants and the gestures
that going on with it
which is very natural to what I call
kinetic orality word of mouth and word
of body it's the thing that gets passed
down over generations in some ways the
Rope is the thing that helps carry it
you need some object to carry memory
through so a jump rope you can use it
for all different kinds of things it
crosses cultures and I think it lasted
because people need to move and I think
sometimes the simplest objects can make
the most creative uses
[Music]